README.md, before:

# LLM Shared

Standardized development guidelines and tools for LLM assistants.

**For LLMs**:

- Refer to `project_tech_stack.md` for universal development guidelines (project management, validation, common practices)
- Refer to `GITHUB.md` for GitHub issue management (creating, reading, and managing issues)
- Refer to `shell_commands.md` for modern shell tool usage (`rg` instead of `grep`, `fd` instead of `find`)
- Refer to `docker.md` for Docker deployment patterns (multi-stage builds, GHCR, docker-compose)
- Language-specific guidelines are in the `languages/` directory:
  - `languages/go.md` - Go libraries, tools, and conventions
  - `languages/python.md` - Python libraries, tools, and conventions
  - `languages/javascript.md` - JavaScript/TypeScript libraries, frameworks, and tools

**Templates**: The `templates/` directory contains starter files and configuration templates:

- `templates/docker/` - Docker deployment templates (Dockerfile, docker-compose, GitHub Actions)
- `templates/github/workflows/` - CI/CD workflows for Go, Python, JavaScript
- `templates/Taskfile.yml` - Comprehensive task runner configuration
- `templates/gitignore-*` - Language-specific .gitignore files
- `templates/golangci.yml` - Go linter configuration

**Tools**: The `utils/` directory contains function analysis tools for code exploration:

- `gofuncs.go` - Go function analyzer
- `go-file-analyzer/main.go` - Go file + function size report (ignores tests) with per-file notes for LLMs
- `pyfuncs.py` - Python function analyzer
- `jsfuncs.js` - JavaScript/TypeScript function analyzer
- `validate-docs.go` - Project structure validator

**Versions**: Run `python scripts/update_versions.py` (or rely on the scheduled GitHub Action) to refresh `versions.md`, which tracks recommended Go, Python, and GitHub Action versions.

**Repository hooks**:

If the repository uses hooks, enable this setting:

```sh
git config core.hooksPath scripts/hooks
```

Then all hooks should be in the `scripts/hooks` directory.

**HTTP API**:

- All HTTP APIs MUST have a `/whoami` endpoint that returns the project name, git hash, build time and version in JSON format, e.g. `{"name":"MyProject","version":"1.0.0", "hash":"abc123", "build_time":"2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"}`.
- When something is running in the port, you MUST use the `/whoami` endpoint to identify it before attempting to start it or kill it.

example:

```go
func (h *Handler) Whoami(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  w.Header().Set("Content-Type", "application/json")
  json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(map[string]string{
    "name":       h.AppName,
    "version":    h.Version,
    "hash":       h.GitHash,
    "build_time": h.BuildTime,
  })
}
```

Commit message:

feat: try to stop assistants from "fixing" the submodule along other work

README.md, after:

# LLM Shared

Standardized development guidelines and tools for LLM assistants.

## ⚠️ Important Note for AI Assistants

**The `llm-shared/` directory is a git submodule that must NOT be modified without explicit permission.**

- Do NOT edit, refactor, or "improve" any files in `llm-shared/`
- Do NOT add dependencies to code in `llm-shared/` (it must remain stdlib-only)
- When running tests or linters, exclude the `llm-shared/` directory
- The submodule is shared across multiple projects and must remain project-independent
- If issues are found in `llm-shared/`, report them but do not fix them automatically

**For LLMs**:

- Refer to `project_tech_stack.md` for universal development guidelines (project management, validation, common practices)
- Refer to `GITHUB.md` for GitHub issue management (creating, reading, and managing issues)
- Refer to `shell_commands.md` for modern shell tool usage (`rg` instead of `grep`, `fd` instead of `find`)
- Refer to `docker.md` for Docker deployment patterns (multi-stage builds, GHCR, docker-compose)
- Language-specific guidelines are in the `languages/` directory:
  - `languages/go.md` - Go libraries, tools, and conventions
  - `languages/python.md` - Python libraries, tools, and conventions
  - `languages/javascript.md` - JavaScript/TypeScript libraries, frameworks, and tools

**Templates**: The `templates/` directory contains starter files and configuration templates:

- `templates/docker/` - Docker deployment templates (Dockerfile, docker-compose, GitHub Actions)
- `templates/github/workflows/` - CI/CD workflows for Go, Python, JavaScript
- `templates/Taskfile.yml` - Comprehensive task runner configuration
- `templates/gitignore-*` - Language-specific .gitignore files
- `templates/golangci.yml` - Go linter configuration

**Tools**: The `utils/` directory contains function analysis tools for code exploration:

- `gofuncs.go` - Go function analyzer
- `go-file-analyzer/main.go` - Go file + function size report (ignores tests) with per-file notes for LLMs
- `pyfuncs.py` - Python function analyzer
- `jsfuncs.js` - JavaScript/TypeScript function analyzer
- `validate-docs.go` - Project structure validator

**Versions**: Run `python scripts/update_versions.py` (or rely on the scheduled GitHub Action) to refresh `versions.md`, which tracks recommended Go, Python, and GitHub Action versions.

**Repository hooks**:

If the repository uses hooks, enable this setting:

```sh
git config core.hooksPath scripts/hooks
```

Then all hooks should be in the `scripts/hooks` directory.

**HTTP API**:

- All HTTP APIs MUST have a `/whoami` endpoint that returns the project name, git hash, build time and version in JSON format, e.g. `{"name":"MyProject","version":"1.0.0", "hash":"abc123", "build_time":"2024-01-01T00:00:00Z"}`.
- When something is running in the port, you MUST use the `/whoami` endpoint to identify it before attempting to start it or kill it.

example:

```go
func (h *Handler) Whoami(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  w.Header().Set("Content-Type", "application/json")
  json.NewEncoder(w).Encode(map[string]string{
    "name":       h.AppName,
    "version":    h.Version,
    "hash":       h.GitHash,
    "build_time": h.BuildTime,
  })
}
```
